---
title: "Static Analysis of Context Leaks in Android Applications"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-06-ICSE
excerpt:
date: "June 2018"
venue: 'The 40th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice (SEPA@ICSE), Gothenburg, Sweden'
paperurl: '/files/memoryLeakICSE.pdf'
citation:
---

**Authors:** **Flavio Toffalini**, Jun Sun, Mart&iacute;n Ochoa

**Abstract:**  
Android native applications, written in Java and distributed in APK
format, are widely used in mobile devices. Their specific pattern of
use lets the operating system control the creation and destruction
of key resources, such as activities and services (contexts). Programmers are not supposed to interfere with such lifecycle events.
Otherwise contexts might be leaked, i.e. they will never be deallocated from memory, or be deallocated too late, leading to memory
exhaustion and frozen applications. In practice, it is easy to write
incorrect code, which hinders garbage collection of contexts and
subsequently leads to context leakage.
In this work, we present a new static analysis method that finds
context leaks in Android code. We apply this analysis to APKs
translated into Java bytecode. We discuss the results of a large number of experiments with our analysis, which reveal context leaks
in many widely used applications from the Android marketplace.
This shows the practical usefulness of our technique and proves
its superiority w.r.t. the well-known Lint static analysis tool. We
then estimate the amount of memory saved by the collection of the
leaks found and explain, experimentally, where programmers often
go wrong and what the analysis is not yet able to find. Such lessons
could be later leveraged for the definition of a sound or more powerful static analysis for Android leaks. This work can be considered
as a practical application of software analysis techniques to solve

[Download paper here](/files/memoryLeakICSE.pdf)

[Slides](http://www.slideshare.net/FlavioToffalini/static-analysis-of-context-leaks-in-android-applications/)
